[Music]
it seems like tech companies are trying
to sell you the next big thing every
other day phones in particular go
through a lot of new ideas and some
proposals don't always end up working
out here's a list of phone concepts that
didn't can't or aren't likely to hit the
mainstream number one optical zoom
camera phones smartphones are the reason
most people don't have digital cameras
anymore
the only exceptions are professional
photographers and filmmakers who need a
degree of performance they can get only
from a specialized device one of the
biggest advantages of traditional
cameras is the ability to take clearer
pictures from farther away some
companies try to bridge this gap by
creating phones whose cameras featured
an adjustable optical zoom the downside
was that all the extra lenses made the
phone a lot bulkier given a choice
between the two most consumers ended up
choosing slimmer sleeker phones instead
of better long-distance photography
number two early gaming phones games
have been on phone since long before the
first iPhones appeared still their
quality was lagging far behind the
then-current mobile gaming platforms
that didn't stop a few companies from
trying to put out an all-in-one Phone
and portable gaming device we could go
into all the reasons why various
attempts weren't successful but the
biggest one was that they couldn't
compete with neither phones nor handheld
consoles of the same generation they
also tended to have unimpressive game
libraries and manufacturers that didn't
have much experience in designing video
game hardware number three
integrated Bluetooth headsets hands-free
devices are a big help when you're
driving and you can see what designers
were going for when they introduced
phones that came with a detachable
Bluetooth headset the earpieces would
plug in the back of the phone for
storage and charging despite the
convenience phones like this never
really caught on the biggest problem was
that the earpiece had to be small enough
that it wouldn't make the phone too
bulky the smaller components led to a
much shorter battery
an inferior audio quality number for 3d
displays James Cameron's Avatar with its
outstanding use of 3d was all the rage
in 2009 it's no surprise that smartphone
manufacturers decided they wanted in on
the action and rolled out the first 3d
phones a few years later such devices
let users watch create and share 3d
images and videos without the special
glasses unfortunately although some 3d
phones made all right sales they never
really took off as a concept one of the
biggest problems was the lack of
third-party apps that supported the
feature it also didn't help that many
people felt nauseous when looking at 3d
images on a handheld device number 5
transparent phones considering that
companies have been working on them
since 2009
you'd think see-through phones would be
standard by now one problem is that all
the batteries and circuitry need to go
somewhere and since you can't put it
behind the screen there aren't many
places left another issue is that you
have two images layered on top of each
other with a transparent screen there's
the image on the screen and then
whatever's behind it unless you pointed
at a blank wall your eyes are going to
have trouble knowing what to focus on
you can partially solve this problem by
cranking up the brightness but that uses
up more power reducing the battery life
number 6 gamepads
mobile gaming has come a long way since
the early 2000s so it makes sense that
someone would try and make a modern
gaming focus smartphone the result was a
smartphone that featured slide-out game
controls and integrated shoulder buttons
as well as a full gaming library to
choose from the biggest problem though
turned out to be the lack of demand
touchscreen controls work perfectly well
for most players and games it's also
possible to buy Bluetooth and micro USB
controllers that let you turn any phone
you want into a portable console number
7 built-in projectors
if there's one unavoidable limitation of
smartphones
it's the screen size tablets and laptops
are bigger but less convenient
projectors seem like an obvious solution
the first phones with this built-in
feature rolled out in 2010 but never
really took off the biggest issue was
the difficulty of balancing size
brightness and image quality on top of
that projector phones have to compete
with better quality plug-in projectors
and new technologies like phone - TV
casting number 8 dual screen phones
we've all heard about the foldable
displays made from soft plastic or new
types of flexible glass but there were
other attempts at multi-screen phones in
the last decade some of these early
models consisted of two screens that
folded together like a clamshell others
had a main screen that was always facing
outward and a secondary screen that slid
out from behind it while they succeeded
in offering a large display in a smaller
package there was no hiding the obvious
scene where the two screens came
together the hinge also created a weak
spot in the phone's architecture that
made it vulnerable to additional wear
and tear número nine tablets six years
ago tablets were expected to do two
computers with cell phones did the
landlines that didn't happen though it
all comes down to convenience versus
utility smart phones are small enough to
fit in your pocket you can carry them
anywhere without having to worry about
cases or special pockets in your bag a
computer isn't as easily portable but
it's better for anything that requires
higher performance hardware like graphic
design or gaming tablets have neither of
these qualities they're still handy for
example as portable credit card readers
but they sure aren't going to replace
the PC anytime soon
number 10 slide-out keyboards
smartphones have been shedding buttons
for years but that wasn't always the
case many older touchscreen smartphones
came with a keyboard that could slide
out for more comfortable typing most
people thought the touchscreen made
keyboards redundant though they also
made the phone bulkier with smartphones
trending toward wider screens thinner
frames and fewer moving parts it's no
surprise that keyboards were the first
to go you can still find them if you
know where to look
but right now slide-out keyboards are
far from the industry standard 11 the
social media fall what do you get if you
take a smartphone but remove the ability
to use apps you get the social media
phone the devices in question could take
pictures and videos send texts and
emails and connect you to Facebook and
Twitter and that was pretty much it
considering that smart phones can do all
this and more it's no surprise that we
don't see it on the store fronts the
social media phone was intended as a
smartphone alternative for kids and
teenagers the lack of features and it's
steep price tag didn't go over well with
anyone though 12 clicking screens haptic
feedback is the fancy word for getting a
physical response from an electronic
device
things like the rumble on a game
controller or the little vibrations when
you tap on something on your phone
there was a smart phone though that took
it a step further
it didn't just simulate physical
feedback it gave it the screen contained
a complex mechanical system designed to
mimic the feel of a keyboard perfectly
at least that was the idea in reality
when the screen work people complain
that it didn't feel natural and made it
hard to type when it didn't it made the
phone practically unusable
number thirteen news tickers do you live
and breathe the news do you keep a
constant finger on the economy's pulse
if so you might have used the ticker
equipped phones that started popping up
in the early 2010's the ticker would sit
beneath the screen and provide constant
updates on weather news events and stock
quotes along with social media updates
the problem was that the tickers took up
space that could have been used for a
larger screen
they were also too small to provide much
information the concept failed to take
off because it didn't offer enough of an
advantage over pop-up notifications
it'll be interesting to come back in 10
years and see what did and didn't
succeed in the next decade meet you back
here for that one hey if you learned
something new today then give the video
a like and share it with a friend and
here are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life